
# Front page
 #not a heading

## h2
 ##not a heading

### h3
#### h4
##### h5
###### h6
 paragraph1

=> /subfolder A link
=> /subpage A second link
 another paragraph not another paragraph

 this might be a bold text but we all know its true

 btw, alternative syntax for __bold__ text is not supported. You cannot use `__` to denote bold. Remember to use **bold** this way.

 The result will truely by **bold**.

 Taken from markdown guide: Acatmeow

 As you can see you gotta be cat to use markdown.

>  To use computer you have to be gay enough

 ^^ the above is not compatible with normal markdown but here quotes end as soon as you stop begging lines with >

 Also, authors are parsed. If the line after a quote begins with tilde, it means this is an author of that quote.

>   And this is also a quote. You can use `code` in quotes too.

 This line is not a quote

> >   Nested queotes are something but idk


>   #### The quarterly results look great!* Revenue was off the chart.* Profits were higher than ever.   Everything is going according to plan.

 oh no, corpos attack! Seriously why do we have to be ruled by some idiots with a bit of luck:

0) If you really care about people wellbeing and set yourself better goals then money, you're not staying afloat in current system. This is common knowledge at this point
1) Every person in your company is putting a brick towards it's success: 1. Even if you're the most productive person in the entire company the collective effort of all workers probably outweight yours by a long shot. 2. I have doubts you are really the most productive. 3. What is that? Without you this company would not exist? Are you really a "free market" believer?
2) Please read more on these keywords: - doocracy - merithocracy - cooperatives - workplace democracy - equality vs equity or as someone from FOSDEM called it "suppocracy". I really liked that talk.
3) Even you, CEO of a big company - You will feel pressured until you climb to the very top of the ladder you're climbing. Do you actually hope to be there? Chances are low.
 nyaaa

=> /blog/ A index of blog
```
`def some_code_blocks():

    are = here or there

    return now_to_the_document
`
```

 Here are some blog posts:

* Some ending points
* Another one
