nPerDim: 5
nTiles: 125
bin 0 has 3 points
bin 1 has 33 points
bin 2 has 56 points
bin 3 has 24 points
bin 4 has 16 points
bin 5 has 61 points
bin 6 has 435 points
bin 7 has 757 points
bin 8 has 494 points
bin 9 has 185 points
bin 10 has 1 points
bin 11 has 5 points
bin 12 has 12 points
bin 13 has 4 points
bin 14 has 3 points
bin 15 has 26 points
bin 16 has 167 points
bin 17 has 286 points
bin 18 has 159 points
bin 19 has 71 points
bin 20 has 34 points
bin 21 has 317 points
bin 22 has 524 points
bin 23 has 355 points
bin 24 has 128 points
bin 25 has 0 points
bin 26 has 8 points
bin 27 has 9 points
bin 28 has 6 points
bin 29 has 2 points
bin 30 has 10 points
bin 31 has 94 points
bin 32 has 134 points
bin 33 has 96 points
bin 34 has 44 points
bin 35 has 0 points
bin 36 has 0 points
bin 37 has 7 points
bin 38 has 1 points
bin 39 has 0 points
bin 40 has 4 points
bin 41 has 30 points
bin 42 has 50 points
bin 43 has 34 points
bin 44 has 21 points
bin 45 has 11 points
bin 46 has 61 points
bin 47 has 115 points
bin 48 has 77 points
bin 49 has 30 points
bin 50 has 0 points
bin 51 has 0 points
bin 52 has 0 points
bin 53 has 0 points
bin 54 has 0 points
bin 55 has 0 points
bin 56 has 0 points
bin 57 has 0 points
bin 58 has 0 points
bin 59 has 0 points
bin 60 has 0 points
bin 61 has 0 points
bin 62 has 0 points
bin 63 has 0 points
bin 64 has 0 points
bin 65 has 0 points
bin 66 has 6 points
bin 67 has 11 points
bin 68 has 6 points
bin 69 has 2 points
bin 70 has 0 points
bin 71 has 0 points
bin 72 has 3 points
bin 73 has 1 points
bin 74 has 0 points
bin 75 has 9 points
bin 76 has 65 points
bin 77 has 127 points
bin 78 has 78 points
bin 79 has 29 points
bin 80 has 1 points
bin 81 has 16 points
bin 82 has 19 points
bin 83 has 16 points
bin 84 has 9 points
bin 85 has 0 points
bin 86 has 0 points
bin 87 has 0 points
bin 88 has 0 points
bin 89 has 0 points
bin 90 has 52 points
bin 91 has 396 points
bin 92 has 651 points
bin 93 has 438 points
bin 94 has 183 points
bin 95 has 22 points
bin 96 has 151 points
bin 97 has 289 points
bin 98 has 168 points
bin 99 has 64 points
bin 100 has 56 points
bin 101 has 416 points
bin 102 has 684 points
bin 103 has 435 points
bin 104 has 170 points
bin 105 has 9 points
bin 106 has 78 points
bin 107 has 145 points
bin 108 has 96 points
bin 109 has 42 points
bin 110 has 0 points
bin 111 has 0 points
bin 112 has 0 points
bin 113 has 0 points
bin 114 has 0 points
bin 115 has 1 points
bin 116 has 18 points
bin 117 has 18 points
bin 118 has 6 points
bin 119 has 0 points
bin 120 has 0 points
bin 121 has 4 points
bin 122 has 3 points
bin 123 has 6 points
bin 124 has 1 points
nPerDim: 5
nTiles: 125
CLUE executed in 277.17999 ms
Number of clusters found: 4
CLUE executed in 69.376557 ms
Number of clusters found: 4
